[FIX] - Update hardhat guide according to latest releases of hardhat-polkadot (#623)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat.md

    npm init -y
    ```

> 3. To interact with Polkadot, Hardhat requires the following plugins to compile contracts to PolkaVM bytecode and to spawn a local node compatible with PolkaVM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To interact with Polkadot, Hardhat requires the following plugins to compile contracts to PolkaVM bytecode and to spawn a local node compatible with PolkaVM:
```

3. Install Hardhat and the required plugins:

    ```bash
    npm install --save-dev hardhat@"<2.23.0" @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
    ```

    To interact with Polkadot, Hardhat requires the followin plugins to compile contracts to PolkaVM bytecode and to spawn a local node compatible with PolkaVM.

    ```bash

>     npm install --save-dev @parity/hardhat-polkadot @parity/resolc

Reviewer 2: @parity/resolc shouldn't be necessary, why is it here?

Author: If not, when running `npx hardhat compile` I got: `Error: Cannot find module '@parity/resolc'`

Reviewer 2: I'll look into this, we can leave it for the time being but that error shouldn't happen.

    - **`test`** - contains your test files that validate contract functionality
    - **`ignition`** - deployment modules for safely deploying your contracts to various networks

5. Finish the setup by installing all the dependencies:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

    !!! note

>         This last step is needed for how the `hardhat-polkadot` plugin is set up. It will install the `@parity/hardhat-polkadot` package and all its dependencies. In the future this will be handled automatically by the plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This last step is needed to set up the `hardhat-polkadot` plugin. It will install the `@parity/hardhat-polkadot` package and all its dependencies. In the future, the plugin will handle this automatically.
```

## Compiling Your Contract

The plugin will compile your Solidity contracts for Solidity versions `0.8.0` and higher to be PolkaVM compatible. When compiling your contract, there are two ways to configure your compilation process:

> - **Npm compiler** - uses library [@parity/resolc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/resolc){target=\_blank} for simplicity and ease of use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **npm compiler** - uses library [@parity/resolc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/resolc){target=\_blank} for simplicity and ease of use
```

- **Binary compiler** - uses your local `resolc` binary directly for more control and configuration options

To compile your project, follow these instructions:

> 1. Modify your Hardhat configuration file to specify which compilation process you will be using and activate the `polkavm` flag in the hardhat network:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Modify your Hardhat configuration file to specify which compilation process you will be using and activate the `polkavm` flag in the Hardhat network:
```

>     === "Npm Configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "npm Configuration"
```

          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:37:39'
            --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:49:49'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:59:60'
        ```

    === "Binary Configuration"

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="10-23"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:8'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:22:36'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:37:39'
            --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:49:49'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:59:60'
        ```

    For the binary configuration, replace `INSERT_PATH_TO_RESOLC_COMPILER` with the proper path to the binary. To obtain the binary, check the [releases](https://github.com/paritytech/revive/releases){target=\_blank} section of the `resolc` compiler, and download the latest version.

>     Consider that the optimizer settings are using the default values in the examples above. You can change them according to your project needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The optimizer settings use the default values in the examples above. You can change them according to your project needs.
```

    - **`test`** - contains your test files that validate contract functionality
    - **`ignition`** - deployment modules for safely deploying your contracts to various networks

5. Update your Hardhat configuration file (`hardhat.config.js`) to include the `hardhat-polkadot` plugin:

    ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="4-4"
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:7'
      // Additional configuration will be added later
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:50:50'
    ```

## Compiling Your Contract

The plugin will compile your Solidity contracts for Solidity versions `0.8.0` and higher to be PolkaVM compatible. When compiling your contract, there are two ways to configure your compilation process:

> - **Npm compiler** - uses library [@parity/revive](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/revive){target=\_blank} for simplicity and ease of use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Npm compiler** - uses library [@parity/resolc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/resolc){target=\_blank} for simplicity and ease of use
```

    - **`ignition`** - deployment modules for safely deploying your contracts to various networks

5. Update your Hardhat configuration file (`hardhat.config.js`) to include the `hardhat-polkadot` plugin:

    ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="4-4"
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:7'
      // Additional configuration will be added later
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:60:60'
    ```

## Compiling Your Contract

The plugin will compile your Solidity contracts for Solidity versions `0.8.0` and higher to be PolkaVM compatible. When compiling your contract, there are two ways to configure your compilation process:

- **Npm compiler** - uses library [@parity/resolc](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/resolc){target=\_blank} for simplicity and ease of use
- **Binary compiler** - uses your local `resolc` binary directly for more control and configuration options

To compile your project, follow these instructions:

1. Modify your Hardhat configuration file to specify which compilation process you will be using and activate the `polkavm` flag in the hardhat network:

>     === "Npm Configuration"

Reviewer 3: Missing network config

Author: fixed in 
27c9d70

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="10-21"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:21'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:60:60'

>         ```

Author: are you sure about this one? I do see as expected here:

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a3f38ed9-e3f3-4f30-8dc1-7b2c58a59301)

>         ```

Author: Resolving these comments since they are outdated after the latest commits

    === "Binary Configuration"

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="10-23"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:8'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:22:36'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:60:60'
        ```

>     For the binary configuration, replace `INSERT_PATH_TO_RESOLC_COMPILER` with the proper path to the binary. To obtain the binary, check the [releases](https://github.com/paritytech/revive/releases){target=\_blank} section of the `revive` compiler, and download the latest version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For the binary configuration, replace `INSERT_PATH_TO_RESOLC_COMPILER` with the proper path to the binary. To obtain the binary, check the [releases](https://github.com/paritytech/revive/releases){target=\_blank} section of the `resolc` compiler, and download the latest version.
```
`revive` is the name of the pallet and the project, `resolc` is the compiler's.

When testing your contract, be aware that [`@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox/network-helpers`](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network-helpers/docs/overview){target=\_blank} is not fully compatible with Asset Hub's available RPCs. Specifically, Hardhat-only helpers like `time` and `loadFixture` may not work due to missing RPC calls in the node. For more details, refer to the [Compatibility](https://github.com/paritytech/hardhat-revive/tree/main/packages/hardhat-revive-node#compatibility){target=\_blank} section in the `hardhat-revive` docs.

> You should avoid using helpers like `time` and `loadFixture` when writing tests. 

Reviewer: I'd recommend folding this last sentence into the above paragraph:

> When testing your contract, be aware that [`@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox/network-helpers`](https://hardhat.org/hardhat-network-helpers/docs/overview){target=\_blank} is not fully compatible with Asset Hub's available RPCs. Specifically, Hardhat-only helpers like `time` and `loadFixture` may not work due to missing RPC calls in the node. As such, you should avoid using these helpers when writing tests. For more details, refer to the [Compatibility](https://github.com/paritytech/hardhat-revive/tree/main/packages/hardhat-revive-node#compatibility){target=\_blank} section in the `hardhat-revive` docs.

Author: fixed [fb73c01](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/623/commits/fb73c015722a9bea10a68ebe29ab1c00bb1b853a)

To run your test:

1. Update the `hardhat.config.js` file to specify the path of the local node and the ETH-RPC adapter:

>     === "Npm Configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "npm Configuration"
```

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="25-33"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:21'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:37:49'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:59:60'
        ```

    === "Binary Configuration"

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="27-35"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:8'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:22:49'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:59:60'
        ```

2. Execute the following command:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat test
    ```

## Deploying with a Local Node

> Before deploying to a live network, you can deploy your contract to a local node using Ignition modules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying to a live network, you can deploy your contract to a local node using [Ignition](https://hardhat.org/ignition/docs/getting-started#overview){target=\_blank} modules:
```

    
    This limitation is established by Hardhat based on Ethereum's default contract size limits. While Hardhat can disable this limitation, technical constraints currently prevent it from being applied to the PolkaVM test environment.

1. Update the Hardhat configuration file to add the local node as a target for local deployment:

    === "Npm Configuration"

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="27-30"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:13'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:27:43'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:49:50'
        ```

    === "Binary Configuration"

        ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="35-38"
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:8'
          --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:14:43'
        --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:49:50'
        ```

2. Start a local node:

    ```bash
    npx hardhat node
    ```

>     This command will spawn a local substrate node along with the ETC-RPC adapter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This command will spawn a local substrate node along with the ETH-RPC adapter.
```

    
    This limitation is established by Hardhat based on Ethereum's default contract size limits. While Hardhat can disable this limitation, technical constraints currently prevent it from being applied to the PolkaVM test environment.

1. Update the Hardhat configuration file to add the local network as a target for local deployment:

>     === "Npm Configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "npm Configuration"
```

3. Install the [`dotenv`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv){target=\_blank} package to load the private key into your Hardhat configuration:

    ```bash

>     npm install --save-dev dotenv

Reviewer: We should create a ticket to use encrypted private keys instead of .env files

Author: this is only available in hardhat 3.0 afaik, hardhat polkadot uses 2.22

    ```

4. Update your config to load it:

    ```javascript title="hardhat.config.js" hl_lines="6"
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:1:4'

    require('dotenv').config();

    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:6:7'
      // The rest remains the same...
    --8<-- 'code/develop/smart-contracts/dev-environments/hardhat/hardhat.config.js:60:60'
    ```

5. Update your Hardhat configuration file with network settings for the Polkadot network you want to target:

>     === "Npm Configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    === "npm Configuration"
```
